---
title: "Frequently asked questions"
novoigl: yes
slug: "faq"
---


### Questions about the furnishing of the rooms and the dormitory

{{< accordion "How high is the rent?" >}}
The fixed rent is 310,20 €/month.
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "How big are the rooms?" >}}
Each room is 14qm big.
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "How many rooms are in each flat?" >}}
Each flat consists of three or four rooms and a shared kitchen.
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "Which utilities are included in the fixed rent?" >}}
The fixed rent includes heating, water and sewage costs. Additionally, the rent includes the maintenance costs of the building. The costs for electricity and internet costs are not contained in the fixed rent. Electricity is billed for each shared flat and the internet contract is set up centrally.
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "Are the rooms “barrier-free”?" >}}
Yes! All floors are accessible elevator and the doors have flat thresholds and are wheelchair accessible. For now, only four flats on the ground floor are equipped with barrier-free bathrooms. It is possible to adapt all other flats in this way at a later time. If you need more specific information on this subject, contact us directly at einziehen@collegiumacademicum.de
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "Where do we buy our electricity?" >}}
External electricity is 100% renewable enery delievered by the Heidelberger Energiegenossenschaft (Heidelberg energy-cooperate). Most of the electricity is generated by solar panel system on the room with in-house batteries. Electricity costs is not part of the fixed rent!
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "Does each flat have its own washing machine?" >}}
No, except the flat-mates would pay and set up one themselves. The house has a separate central washing lounge with enough washing machines for all residents. We think a shared washing lounge is a more sufficient approach and saves all residents space and costs.
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "How are the kitchens in the flats equipped?" >}}
Each kitchen comes equipped with a stove, oven, fridge and a kitchen top with a sink. Additional the kitchen has a table and chairs. All wooden furniture is made in-house!
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "What kind of internet connection do the rooms have?" >}}
The complete house is equipped with high speed WiFi access. Each flat has its own WiFi access point. The house has a dedicated fiber line. Internet costs are not in the fixed rent included but should be fairly cheap, residents do not have to get their own interet contracts.
{{< /accordion >}}

### Questions about the application

{{< accordion "I am not yet a student or trainee, can I apply for a place?" >}}
Yes! You can apply before getting your student or trainee status. It is necessary though, that at your moving in day, you are enrolled in your program. If in the meantime it turns out that you cannot start your study program / apprenticeship, you can step back from your letter of intent without any costs.
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "Is there an age restriction?" >}}
Due to legal reasons, you must be older than 18 years.
{{< /accordion >}}

{{< accordion "I'm interested, but I don't know if there are any places left. Should I still apply?" >}}
Yes, we are still looking for many new residents for the move-in in August 2022! So get to work and send us your application! We would also be happy if you told other people about us who might also be interested in moving in.
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "Does the application cost anything?" >}}
No! The application does not cost you anything. If you are invited for a get-to-know-you day, we cannot reimburse your travel costs, sadly. *(Note: Because of the current situation, all get-to-knows are held online anyway!)*
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "I am under eighteen, can I apply anyway?" >}}
Yes, this is not a problem. For the letter of intent and the rental contract you will need a parent that can co-sign both documents.
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "Can I apply now already if I only want to move in for the Winter semester 2022/2023?" >}}
No, right now we are focussing on finding the first residents that are moving in in August 2022. If you want to move in later, you should approach us at a later time.
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "I have supported the project by giving a direct loan before. Do I or my children/relatives have an advantage with moving in?" >}}
No! Financial support does not have any influence on who can move in. The financial background should not have any effect whether somebody  can be part of this community or not.
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "According to which criteria will the residents be chosen?" >}}
Given that the formal requirements are met (status as a student, doctoral student of trainee) we are searching for people that can identify with our mission statement, that want to engage in the self-organization of the dormitory and want to take up responsiblity for the community.
{{< /accordion >}}

### Questions about moving in and the living together

{{< accordion "When can I first move in into the building?" >}}
As we are currently constructing the building, we can sadly not guarantee are precise fixed moving in date. According to our current plan, the moving-in day will in August 2022.
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "Can I choose my flatmates?" >}}
Yes! As soon as you get accepted for a room in the house, you can start engaging with other people accepted for a room. In this process you can form your own shared flats of three or four persons each. We will support you in that process, of course.
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "Can I bring my pet?" >}}
No, in the dormitory pets are not currently allowed. An exception to this are assistance pets.
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "Is it possible that the project fails, before the building is finished?" >}}
Given our current construction and financial situation, we think this possibility for this are extremely slim.
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "Can I bring my own furniture?" >}}
Each room is always rented furnished (desk, wardrobe, bed). For the first occupancy in August 2022, there is the possibility to bring your own furniture if you wish. In this case, the basic furniture will be handed over to the CA for the duration of the stay (in the form of a donation, deposit or free rent - what exactly is possible will be discussed again with Eberhard). The furnishing surcharge of 20€ remains included in the rent in any case. A list is kept of the intentions of those moving in to donate their furniture temporarily/long-term. A working group must guarantee that furniture will be available when new residents move in.
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "Do I have to give the project money or a loan to move in?" >}}
No! Financial support does not have any influence on who can move in. The financial background should not have any effect whether somebody  can be part of this community or not.
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "Does the house have special family flats for families with children?" >}}
There are no family flats in the strict sense. Nevertheless, it is possible to move into the residence with children. There are several options. A child can rent its own room in its own shared flat. It is also possible for two adults to share a room and use the room that becomes free as a children's room. Thanks to the flexible partition walls, individual room sizes are also possible. For example, one room can be divided into two smaller rooms of 7 square metres each, one of which would become a passage room.
Translated with www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "I am a single parent. Can I move in?" >}}
Yes, you can. Take note though of the formal requirement that each room has to be rented by a student or trainee. See the question above.
{{< /accordion >}}
{{< accordion "Do I have to help with the construction of the house?" >}}
No! Nevertheless, we appreciate any help with the work necessary to finish the house. These tasks include the construction of the furniture, publicity work and the organization of finances of the project. However, support from those moving in is sensible and desirable, especially with regard to the future self-administration, and in order to be able to manage the move-in.
{{< /accordion >}}
